# Reservation
#### Video Demo: <URL >
## Description:
### Summary
"Reservation" is a single-page hotel booking app that allows users to browse through various room options, search, make and cancel reservations. At the top of the index page there are 3 main navigation buttons: Find Stay, All Rooms and My Reservations. "Find Stay" view contains a form for submitting requests and search results. Clicking on a search result opens description for the selected room and a button to make reservation. "All Rooms" section presents all rooms in a hotel with a button for search dates for a preferred room. "My Reservations" view lists all reservations made by the logged in user. Clicking a reservation shows room description and a button to cancel. Clicking on the "Reservation" page title reloads the page and resets the search form.

### Distinctiveness
After practicing with TextFields, IntegerFields and BooleanFields in this course's projects I decided to take a closer look at DateTimeField, which we touched only briefly by the using auto_now_add=True argument. Thus, Django's DateField field and Python's datetime module became the focus of my final project and hotel booking was chosed as the project's theme. Among distinct features are the logic for converting strings to date objects and vice versa, various server-side checks that will be explored in the "Complexity" section, calculation of total duration of stay and displaying total reservation price. I also decided to practice fetching using query string and utilizing the Query Dict on the server side. I also tried my best to create an appealing design to make my work stand out.

### Complexity
#### Server
As for server-side complexity, a smart filtering is applied to every user's search request. The search form values are processed and only available rooms are displayed on the screen, that is already booked rooms for selected dates will not be shown. Similar logic is applied when user is trying to make a reservation. Server prevents checkin/checkout dates overlapping for different reservations, so it is impossible to book the same room for the same or overlapping dates for 2 different users. There is also a check for room's number of beds against the requested number of guests. Python code also prevents making/canceling reservation for a room different from the one displayed on the screen, e.g. by exploiting exposed id of html elements and url paths in html forms and javascript code. Another server-side check protects against canceling reservations not belonging to the logged in user.
#### Client
As for the client side, in addidtion to the date picker input, I implemented 4 buttons for a fast increase/decrease of dates. After initial loading of the app the "Checkin" and "Checkout" search form inputs are automatically filled with today's and tomorrow's dates. Changing any search parameters removes all search results. While browsing through all hotel rooms a user has ability to click the "Search Available Dates" button. After clicking on it the user is taken to the Find Stay view with the preferred room already selected in the form. When user clicks on the "Search" button the screen automatically scrolls down to the search results. The same feature is implemented for clicking on a particular search result or reservation. Smooth animation using css opacity property is added for switching between app views.

also will not allow to cancel